CHAPTER 1

A1. General introduction to the two aspects: the original and the derivative
  B1. Time and place that the Dharma was heard
  B2. Audience
    C1. List of attendees
      D1. The assembly of Śrāvakas
        E1. The assembly of bhikṣus
          F1. Prominent Śrāvakas
            G1. Their category and number
            G2. Their level of attainment and their virtues
            G3. The names of representative Śrāvakas (21 Śrāvakas)
          F2. Other Śrāvakas
        E2. The assembly of bhikṣuṇīs
      D2. The assembly of Bodhisattvas
        E1. Their category and great number
        E2. Their level of attainment and their virtues
        E3. The names of representative Bodhisattvas
      D3. Other members of the assembly
        E1. The assembly of gods of the realm of desire
        E2. The assembly of gods of the realm of form
        E3. The assembly of dragons
        E4. The assembly of kiṃnaras
        E5. The assembly of gandharvas
        E6. The assembly of asuras
        E7. The assembly of garuḍas
        E8. The assembly of humans
    C2. Summary of the assembled multitudes
A2. Specific explanation of the two aspects: the original and the derivative
  B1. The derivative aspect: unfolding the provisional to reveal the ultimate (chaps. 1–14)
    C1. Introduction section (chap. 1)
      D1. Introduction of the gathering of the assembly
      D2. Introduction of the manifestation of auspicious signs
        E1. The six auspicious signs in this land
          F1. The auspicious sign of teaching the Dharma
          F2. The auspicious sign of entering samādhi
          F3. The auspicious sign of the raining of flowers
          F4. The auspicious sign of the quaking of the earth
          F5. The auspicious sign of the rejoicing of the assembly
          F6. The auspicious sign of the emitting of light
        E2. The six auspicious signs in other lands
          F1. The auspicious sign of seeing living beings in the six destinies
          F2. The auspicious sign of seeing the Buddhas
          F3. The auspicious sign of hearing the Dharma
          F4. The auspicious sign of seeing the fourfold assembly realize bodhi
          F5. The auspicious sign of seeing the Bodhisattvas undertake practices
          F6. The auspicious sign of seeing the Buddhas enter parinirvāṇa
      D3. Introduction of doubts
        E1. The doubts of Maitreya
        E2. The doubts of the assembly
      D4. Introduction of the questions
        E1. Prose
          F1. Narrative added by sūtra compiler
          F2. Raising questions
        E2. Verse
          F1. Repeating the questions in verse
            G1. Asking about the six auspicious signs in this land
            G2. Asking about the six auspicious signs in other lands
              H1. Asking about living beings in the six destinies
              H2. Asking about seeing the Buddhas and hearing them teach the Dharma
              H3. Asking about the fourfold assembly in other lands
              H4. Conclusion of preceding section and beginning of the next
              H5. Asking about cultivation of Bodhisattva practices in other lands
                I1. Asking in general
                I2. Asking about the six pāramitās in sequence
                  J1. Question about giving
                  J2. Question about upholding precepts
                  J3. Question about patience
                  J4. Question about vigor
                  J5. Question about dhyāna
                  J6. Question about wisdom
                I3. Asking about the six pāramitās out of sequence
                  J1. Question about dhyāna
                  J2. Question about vigor
                  J3. Question about upholding precepts
                  J4. Question about patience
                  J5. Question about dhyāna
                  J6. Question about giving
                  J7. Question about wisdom
              H6. Asking about offerings made to śarīra in other lands
          F2. Requesting answers in verse
            G1. Request for a response to address raised doubts
            G2. Request for an explanation to resolve the doubts of the fourfold assembly
      D5. Introduction to the answers
        E1. Prose
          F1. Answer based on his considered opinion
          F2. Answer referring to past experiences
          F3. Answer describing past experiences in detail
            G1. Śākyamuni Buddha's similarity with a single Buddha
                [i.e., Tathāgata Lamp Shining with the Brightness of Sun and Moon]
              H1. The timing of his teaching
              H2. The name of the Buddha
              H3. His teaching of the Dharma
            G2. Śākyamuni Buddha's similarity with twenty thousand Buddhas
            G3. Śākyamuni Buddha's similarity with the last of the twenty thousand Buddhas
              H1. The similarity of past events with recent events
              H2. The similarity of past events with present events
                I1. The similarity of the auspicious signs
                  J1. Six auspicious signs in this land
                  J2. Six auspicious signs in other lands
                I2. The similarity of doubts
              H3. The similarity of past events with upcoming events
                I1. The similarity of teaching the Dharma for the sake of specific persons
                I2. The similarity of the timing of the teaching
                I3. The similarity of the announcement of entering parinirvāṇa
                I4. The similarity of the bestowal of a prediction
                I5. The similarity of the circulation of the sūtra after the Buddha's parinirvāṇa
                  J1. Entry into parinirvāṇa
                  J2. Benefits of circulating the sūtra after the Buddha's parinirvāṇa
                  J3. Correlation of the past and the present
          F4. Answer giving a clear confirmation
        E2. Verse
          F1. Answer describing past experiences in detail
            G1. The similarity with the first Buddha
            G2. The similarity with the last Buddha
              H1. The similarity of past events with recent events
              H2. The similarity of past events with present events
                I1. The similarity of the auspicious signs
                  J1. Six auspicious signs in this land
                  J2. Six auspicious signs in other lands
                I2. The similarity of doubts
              H3. The similarity of past events with upcoming events
                I1. The similarity of teaching the Dharma for the sake of specific persons
                I2. The similarity of the timing of the teaching
                I3. The similarity of the announcement of entering parinirvāṇa
                I4. The similarity of the bestowal of a prediction
                I5. The similarity of the circulation of the sūtra after the Buddha's parinirvāṇa
                  J1. Offerings and redoubled vigor
                  J2. Benefits of circulating the sūtra after the Buddha's parinirvāṇa
                  J3. Correlation of the past and the present
          F2. Answer giving a clear confirmation
            G1. The Dharma Flower Sūtra is about to be taught
            G2. The Dharma for the Teaching of Bodhisattvas
            G3. Protected and Cherished by All Buddhas
    C2. Main content section (Chaps. 2–9)
    C3. Propagation section (Chaps. 10–14)
  B2. The original aspect: introducing the near to reveal the distant (chaps. 15–20)

CHAPTER 2

C2. The derivative aspect of the sūtra
  D1. General explanation on unfolding the Three to reveal the One,
      to loosen attachments and provoke doubts
    E1. General explanation
      F1. Praising in prose and verse the two types of wisdom of a Buddha
        G1. Prose
          H1. Praising the two types of wisdom with words
            I1. Describing the provisional and ultimate wisdom of all Buddhas
              J1. Praising the two types of wisdom
              J2. Explaining the two types of wisdom
              J3. Conclusion of the two types of wisdom
            I2. Describing the provisional and ultimate wisdom of Śākyamuni Buddha
              J1. Praising the two types of wisdom
              J2. Explaining the two types of wisdom
              J3. Conclusion of the two types of wisdom
          H2. Praising the two types of wisdom as transcending words
            I1. Justifying praise that transcends words
              J1. Giving the reason for praise that transcends words
              J2. Indicating the state that transcends words
            I2. Praising the Buddha's wisdom by refusing to speak
              J1. Praising by refusing to speak
              J2. Explaining the reason for refusal
        G2. Verse
          H1. Praising the two types of wisdom with words
            I1. Praising the two types of wisdom of
                Śākyamuni Buddha and all other Buddhas
            I2. Explaining and concluding the praise of the two types of
                wisdom of Śākyamuni Buddha and all other Buddhas
          H2. Praising the two types of wisdom as transcending words
            I1. Explaining the reason for refusal to speak
            I2. Stating that the Buddha's wisdom transcends words
            I3. Reiterating the state that transcends words
      F2. General explanation on unfolding and revealing,
          causing attachments to waver and doubts to arise
        G1. Stating that all Buddhas reveal the ultimate truth
        G2. Stating that Śākyamuni Buddha unfolds the Three [Vehicles]
    E2. Swirling doubts lead to the request
      F1. Expressing doubts
        G1. Narrative added by sūtra compiler
        G2. Doubts arise
      F2. Requesting help in resolving doubts
        G1. Requesting the first time
          H1. Prose
            I1. Relating their doubts
            I2. Relating their request
          H2. Verse
            I1. Doubts about the two types of wisdom
            I2. Doubts of those of the Three Vehicles and of the fourfold assembly
            I3. Śāriputra's own doubts
            I4. Doubts of all the Buddha's disciples
            I5. Request coming from the same doubts
        G2. Refusing the second time
        G3. Requesting the second time
        G4. Refusing the third time
        G5. Requesting the third time
  D2. Detailed explanation on unfolding the Three to reveal the One,
      to sever doubts and awaken faith
    E1. The round of teaching the Dharma
      F1. Teaching the Dharma
        G1. Prose
          H1. Consenting to teach
            I1. Fulfilling the request
            I2. Exhortation
            I3. Winnowing the assembly
          H2. Receiving the Buddha's instruction
          H3. The instruction
            I1. Explanation of how the original Buddha [in the Dharma body]
                and [the derivative] Buddhas of the three periods of time all
                taught or will teach the provisional and the ultimate
              J1. Generally explaining that all Buddhas teach thus
                K1. Praising the rareness of the Dharma
                K2. Verifying the truth of the Buddhas' words
                K3. Devising skillful means
                  L1. Broaching the topic
                  L2. Explanation
                  L3. Conclusion
                K4. Revealing the truth
                  L1. Indicating supreme beings and supreme Dharma
                  L2. Expressing the Buddhas' intention in appearing in the world
                  L3. Clarifying the Buddhas' intention
                  L4. Explaining the Buddhas' intention
                    M1. The oneness of reality
                    M2. The oneness of people
                    M3. The oneness of practice
                    M4. The oneness of teaching
                  L5. Conclusion
              J2. Explaining the teaching methods of the Buddhas of the three periods of time
                K1. The Buddhas of the past
                K2. The Buddhas of the future
                K3. The Buddhas of the present
            I2. Explanation of how Śākyamuni Buddha taught
                the provisional and the ultimate
              J1. Unfolding the provisional
              J2. Revealing the ultimate
              J3. Exemplifying the need for the provisional with the five turbidities
                K1. Stating the truth
                K2. Listing the five turbidities
                K3. Conclusion
              J4. Dispensing with the false in order to build faith in the one ultimate teaching
                K1. Distinguishing the true from the false
                  L1. Those who do not learn and realize the Buddha's teaching
                      are not true disciples
                  L2. Those who learn but do not uphold the teachings
                      with faith are persons of overbearing pride
                K2. Stating the exception and resolving the doubts
              J5. Verifying that the Buddhas' words are never false
        G2. Verse
          H1. Affirming his answer
          H2. Giving instruction
            I1. Explanation regarding the original Buddhas [in the Dharma body]
                and [the derivative] Buddhas of the three periods of time
              J1. All Buddhas
                K1. Employing the provisional
                K2. Revealing the ultimate
                  L1. The oneness of reality
                  L2. The oneness of people
                  L3. The oneness of teaching
                  L4. The oneness of practice
                K3. Inspiring faith
                  L1. Showing the rewards to inspire faith
                  L2. Delineating the past causes to inspire faith
                K4. Mentioning the five turbidities
                  L1. Explaining that the obstacles of the five turbidities are great
                  L2. Delineating the five obstacles
                  L3. Explaining that the Lesser Vehicle is taught due to the five turbidities
                  L4. Explaining that the Lesser Vehicle is taught for the sake
                      of the Great Vehicle
                K5. Verifying that the Buddhas never lie
              J2. The Buddhas of the past
                K1. Brief explanation of unfolding and revealing
                K2. Extensive explanation of unfolding and revealing
                  L1. General explanation of the use of skillful means
                      to help reveal the supreme truth
                  L2. Specific examples of unfolding and revealing
                    M1. Describing the myriad wholesome deeds
                        as conditional causes for merit
                      N1. Example of the six pāramitās
                      N2. Example of having compliant hearts
                      N3. Example of making offerings to śarīra
                      N4. Example of making images of the Buddhas
                      N5. Example of painting or drawing images of the Buddhas
                      N6. Example of making offerings to stūpas and Buddha images
                      N7. Example of saying the Buddha's name
                    M2. Describing the hearing of the sūtras
                        as revealing causes for merit
              J3. The Buddhas of the future
                K1. Employing the provisional
                K2. Revealing the ultimate
                  L1. The oneness of people
                  L2. The oneness of practice
                  L3. The oneness of teaching
                  L4. The oneness of reality
              J4. The Buddhas of the present
            I2. Explanation regarding Śākyamuni Buddha
              J1. General review of unfolding the provisional to reveal the ultimate
                  (foreshadowing the parable that is given later)
                K1. Revealing the ultimate
                K2. Employing the provisional
              J2. An extensive reiteration of the six reasons for revelation
                  (foreshadowing specific analogies given later)
                K1. The five turbidities as reason for the provisional teaching
                    (foreshadowing the analogy of the fire)
                K2. Employing the provisional (foreshadowing the analogy of
                    casting aside the table to use the carts)
                  L1. Questioning whether or not the Great Vehicle can be used
                    M1. Realizing that it is not appropriate to use the Great Vehicle
                    M2. Living beings lack the potential
                    M3. The thought to stop teaching
                  L2. Thinking to use the Three Vehicles as all Buddhas have done
                    M1. Living beings are able to be taught
                      N1. Determining the appropriateness of the Three Vehicles
                      N2. Living beings have Lesser Vehicle potential
                        O1. Being praised by all Buddhas
                        O2. Śākyamuni Buddha would follow their manner of teaching
                      N3. Bestowing the teaching
                      N4. Receiving, practicing, awakening to, and realizing the teaching
                    M2. Resolving doubts
                K3. Revealing the ultimate (foreshadowing the analogy of the
                    impartial giving of great carts)
                K4. Praising the rareness of the Dharma
                K5. Verifying that the Buddhas never lie (foreshadowing the analogy of
                    the lack of deception on the part of the Buddha)
                K6. Winnowing the assembly to build faith
                  L1. Winnowing the assembly
                  L2. Building faith

CHAPTER 3

F2. Śāriputra is led to understanding
  G1. Narrative added by sūtra compiler
  G2. Śāriputra explains himself
    H1. Prose
      I1. Telling of the three kinds of rejoicing
      I2. Explanation
      I3. Rejoicing in body, speech, and mind
        J1. Rejoicing
        J2. Realization
    H2. Verse
      I1. Announcing the verse
      I2. Verse about the understanding gained upon hearing the Dharma
        J1. Śāriputra had never lost sight of the Great Vehicle
        J2. Śāriputra felt he had lost out
      I3. Conclusion
        J1. Conclusion
          K1. Conclusion
          K2. Recalling further his doubts and regrets
          K3. Narrating his presently being led to understanding
        J2. Final statement
F3. The Tathāgata tells of Śāriputra's realization
  G1. Śāriputra was taught the Great Vehicle in the past
  G2. Halfway through, Śāriputra forgot [the Great Vehicle] and adopted the Lesser Vehicle
  G3. Once again Śāriputra was taught the Great Vehicle
F4. Conferring a prediction
  G1. Prose
    H1. Time
    H2. Formative practices
    H3. Realization of Buddhahood
    H4. Buddhaland
    H5. Teaching of the Dharma
    H6. Name of his eon
    H7. Size of the assembly
    H8. Life span
    H9. Bestowal of predictions on Bodhisattvas destined for Buddhahood in their next life time
    H10. The duration of [Buddha Flower Radiance's] Dharma
  G2. Verse
    H1. Reiterative verse
      I1. Verse about realization of Buddhahood
      I2. Verse about formative practices
      I3. Verse describing his time and the name of his eon
      I4. Verse describing his land
      I5. Verse describing the assembly
      I6. Verse about the teaching of the Dharma
      I7. Verse about his life span
      I8. Verse describing the duration of his Dharma
    H2. Concluding praise
F5. Rejoicing of the fourfold assembly
  G1. Prose
    H1. Sūtra compiler describes the joy of the assembly
    H2. Describing the offerings
    H3. The assembly gains understanding
  G2. Verse
    H1. Verse about unfolding the provisional to reveal the ultimate
    H2. [The gods] state their understanding and make a dedication in joy
E2. The round of teaching by parable
  F1. Parable which sets aside the Three [Vehicles] to reveal the One [Vehicle]
    G1. The request
    G2. The answer
      H1. Opening words
      H2. Teaching by parable
        I1. Prose
          J1. Setting forth the parable
            K1. The parable as a whole
              L1. Analogy of the elder
              L2. Analogy of the house
              L3. Analogy of only one door
              L4. Analogy of the five hundred people
              L5. Analogy of the fire breaking out
                M1. Describing the burning house
                M2. Describing the fire
              L6. Analogy of the tens of children
            K2. Specific analogies
              L1. Analogy of the elder seeing the fire
              L2. Analogy of the elder choosing the carts over the table
                M1. Analogy of casting aside the table
                  N1. Method of exhortation not suitable
                  N2. Method of admonishment not suitable
                M2. Analogy of using the carts
                  N1. Analogy of the suitability of the three carts
                  N2. Analogy of knowing the children's predispositions and preferences
                  N3. Analogy of praising the three carts as being rare
                  N4. Analogy of suiting the children's wishes
              L3. Analogy of giving a great cart to each child impartially
                M1. Analogy of the father rejoicing in seeing his children escape danger
                M2. Analogy of the children requesting carts
                M3. Analogy of giving great carts to the children impartially
                  N1. Affirming the teaching of this chapter
                  N2. Explaining the levels of the carts
                    O1. Describing the physical appearance of the carts
                    O2. Explaining the source of the carts
                  N3. Explaining the impartiality of the mind
                M4. Analogy of the children's joy upon receiving the carts
              L4. Analogy of not being guilty of lying
                M1. Question
                M2. Answer
                M3. Praise
          J2. Correlating the parable with the Dharma
            K1. Correlating the parable as a whole
              L1. Correlating the three analogies of the elder and others
              L2. Correlating the three analogies of the tens of children
            K2. Correlating the specific analogies
              L1. Correlating the analogy of seeing the fire
              L2. Correlating the analogy of the elder choosing the carts over the table
                M1. Correlating the casting aside of the table
                  N1. Correlating the analogy of casting aside the table
                  N2. Correlating the analogy of not using his strength
                M2. Correlating the use of the carts
                  N1. Correlating the suitability of the three carts
                      resonating with the children's predispositions
                  N2. Correlating the praise of the three carts as being rare
                    O1. Correlating the indicative turning
                    O2. Correlating the evidential turning
                    O3. Correlating the hortative turning
                  N3. Correlating the suiting of the children's wishes
              L3. Correlating the analogy of the impartial giving of great carts
                M1. Referring to two analogies: the escape from danger
                    and the impartial giving of great carts
                M2. Correlating the two analogies
              L4. Correlating the analogy of the elder not being guilty of lying
                M1. Referring to the previous analogies
                M2. Correlating the parable to the situation to show that there is no deception
        I2. Verse
          J1. Verse setting forth the parable
            K1. Verse about the parable as a whole
              L1. Verse about the elder
              L2. Verse about the house
              L3. Verse about the five hundred people
              L4. Verse about the fire breaking out
                M1. Describing in verse that the events on the earth
                    are analogous to the realm of desire
                  N1. Describing the types of beings that are burned
                  N2. Describing the cause of the fire
                  N3. Describing the intensity of the fire
                  N4. Describing the scene of the fire
                M2. Describing in verse that the events occurring within
                    the crevices are analogous to the realm of form
                  N1. Describing the types of beings that are burned
                  N2. Describing the cause and the intensity of the fire
                  N3. Describing the scene of the fire
                M3. Describing in verse that the events outside the
                    crevices are analogous to the realm of the formless
                  N1. Describing the types of beings that are burned
                  N2. Describing the scene of the fire
                M4. Concluding that there are many calamities, not just one
            K2. Verse about specific analogies
              L1. Describing in verse the analogy of the elder seeing the fire
              L2. Describing in verse the analogy of the elder choosing the carts over the table
                M1. Describing in verse the casting aside of the table
                M2. Describing in verse the using of the carts
                  N1. Describing in verse the suitability of the three carts
                  N2. Praising in verse the three carts as being rare
                  N3. Verse about suiting the children's wishes
              L3. Describing in verse the analogy of giving a great cart
                  to each child impartially
                M1. Describing in verse the analogy of the father
                    rejoicing in seeing his children escape danger
                M2. Describing in verse the analogy of the children requesting the carts
                M3. Describing in verse the analogy of bestowing great carts
                    to the children impartially
                M4. Describing in verse the analogy of the children's joy
                    upon receiving the carts
          J2. Verse correlating the parable with the Dharma
            K1. Verse correlating the parable as a whole
              L1. Verse correlating the elder
              L2. Verse correlating the five hundred people
              L3. Verse correlating the house
              L4. Verse correlating the fire breaking out
            K2. Verse correlating specific analogies
              L1. Verse correlating the seeing of the fire
              L2. Verse correlating the elder choosing the carts over the table
                M1. Verse correlating the casting aside of the table
                M2. Verse correlating the use of the carts
              L3. Verse correlating the impartial giving of great carts
                M1. Verse correlating impartial giving
                M2. Verse correlating their rejoicing
              L4. Verse correlating the elder not being guilty of lying
      H3. The encouragement of faith and propagation
        I1. Affirming the encouragement of faith and propagation
        I2. Explanation
          J1. Explaining the teachable and the unteachable
          J2. Explaining when and when not to propagate the sūtra
            K1. The door of great compassion—not teaching this sūtra to unwholesome people
            K2. The door of great kindness—teaching this sūtra to wholesome people
              L1. Teaching this sūtra to those who meet any of the five pairs of criteria
              L2. Summarizing those who can be taught
CHAPTER 4

F2. The round of teaching by parable:
    2. Those of average dispositions understand
  G1. Sūtra compiler describes their joy
  G2. Subhūti explains their understanding to the Buddha
    H1. Explanation of attaining understanding in prose and verse
      I1. Prose
        J1. Gaining a brief understanding through the Dharma
          K1. The teaching of the Dharma
            L1. Explaining that they did not further their pursuit in the past
              M1. Statement
              M2. Explanation
            L2. Attainment attained without being sought
          K2. Analogy
        J2. Gaining an extensive understanding by means of a parable
          K1. Setting forth the parable
            L1. Expressing their wish to begin
            L2. Setting forth the parable
              M1. Analogy of the separation of the father and son
                N1. The son runs away
                  O1. Running away from his father
                  O2. Wandering and happening upon his native land
                N2. The father seeks his son but stops halfway
                N3. The son reaches the city where his father has settled
                N4. His father worries
              M2. Analogy of the encounter of the father and son
                N1. The son sees the father
                N2. The father sees the son
              M3. Analogy of sending attendants to chase after his son
                N1. Sending attendants to chase after his son
                N2. Sending two people to entice his son
                  O1. Guiding through teaching strategy
                    P1. Considering for a long time the suitability of provisional wisdom
                    P2. Knowing the children's predispositions and preferences
                    P3. Praising the three carts
                    P4. Suiting the children's wishes, and their fighting
                        to get out of the burning house
                  O2. Guiding through intention
                    P1. Considering for a long time the suitability of provisional wisdom
                    P2. Knowing for a long time his son's delight in lesser Dharma
                    P3. Knowing for a long time the necessity of praising the three carts
                    P4. Knowing for a long time his wish to receive and practice
              M4. Analogy of the receiving and bequeathing of the inheritance
                N1. The receiving of the inheritance
                  O1. The father and son come to understand and trust each other
                  O2. Telling his son to assume the family responsibility
                    P1. Telling his son to manage the household affairs
                    P2. Receiving instruction and assuming responsibility
                N2. Analogy of the bequeathing of the inheritance
                  O1. Officially bequeathing the inheritance
                  O2. Being joyful upon receiving the inheritance
          K2. Correlating the parable with the Dharma
            L1. Correlating the father and son's losing each other
            L2. Correlating the father and son's meeting
            L3. Correlating the chasing and enticement
              M1. Correlating the sending of attendants to chase after the son
              M2. Correlating the sending of two people to entice him
                N1. Correlating the guiding through teaching strategy
                N2. Correlating the guiding through intention
            L4. Correlating the joy of receiving and bequeathing the inheritance
              M1. Correlating the receiving of the inheritance
              M2. Correlating the bequeathing of the inheritance
                N1. Correlating the bequeathing
                N2. Correlating the rejoicing
      I2. Verse
        J1. The teaching of the Dharma
        J2. Teaching by parable
          K1. Setting forth the parable
            L1. Describing in verse the father and son losing each other
              M1. Describing in verse the son running away from his father
              M2. Describing in verse the father seeking for his son and stopping halfway
              M3. Describing in verse the father yearning for his son even more urgently
              M4. Describing in verse the son unexpectedly coming upon his father's city
            L2. Describing in verse the encounter of the father and son
              M1. Describing in verse the son seeing the father
              M2. Describing in verse the father seeing the son
            L3. Describing in verse the chasing and enticing
              M1. Verses about sending two people
              M2. Describing in verse the enticing by the two people
                N1. Describing in verse the hiring of the son
                N2. Encouraging in verse to work hard
            L4. Describing in verse the receiving and bequeathing of the inheritance
              M1. Describing in verse the receiving of the inheritance
              M2. Describing in verse the bequeathing of the inheritance
                N1. Describing in verse the official bequeathing of the inheritance
                N2. Describing in verse the son's joy upon receiving the inheritance
          K2. Verse correlating the parable with the Dharma
            L1. Verse correlating the father and son's losing each other and meeting again
            L2. Verse correlating the chasing and enticing
            L3. Verse correlating the receiving and bequeathing of the inheritance
              M1. Verse correlating the receiving of the inheritance
                N1. Verse correlating instruction and the commitment to take responsibility
                N2. Verse correlating the son having no desire for inheritance
                  O1. [The son's having no desire for inheritance] is analogous to
                      [the Śrāvakas'] having no desire [for the treasury of the Buddhadharma]
                  O2. [The Śrāvakas] explain that they had no aspiration for it
                  O3. Concluding the absence of desire for it
              M2. Verse correlating the bequeathing of the inheritance
                N1. Verse correlating the bequeathing
                N2. Verse correlating the son's joy upon receiving the inheritance
    H2. Thirteen verses in praise of the Buddha's profound kindness


CHAPTER 5

F3. The Tathāgata speaks of his teaching
  G1. Speaking briefly
    H1. Exclaiming "Good indeed!" twice
    H2. Inability to speak fully of the Buddha's virtues
  G2. Speaking extensively
    H1. Prose
      I1. Stating that the provisional and the ultimate are inconceivable
        J1. The teaching of the Dharma
          K1. Stating that the provisional and the ultimate teaching are inconceivable
          K2. Stating that the provisional and ultimate wisdom are inconceivable
        J2. Setting forth an analogy
          K1. Illustrating how the same land and the same rain resulting
              in different plants being moistened differently represents
              teaching the ultimate through the provisional
            L1. Showing how the land is the same, yet the vegetation produced is different
            L2. Showing how the rain moistens all equally,
                yet the plants receive it differently
          K2. Illustrating how the plants growing differently under the same
              conditions of land and rain represents teaching the provisional
              through the ultimate
        J3. Correlating the analogy with the Dharma
          K1. Correlation to how the same teaching is perceived differently
            L1. Correlation
              M1. First, correlating that which moistens
              M2. Second, correlating that which produces and that which is produced
              M3. Further, correlating that which moistens and that which is moistened
                N1. Correlating that which moistens
                N2. Correlating that which is moistened
            L2. Referring to the analogy to indicate the correlation
          K2. Correlation to how the teaching is perceived differently yet is the same
            L1. Correlation
              M1. Correlating that [the plants] grow in the same ground
                  and are moistened by the same rain
              M2. Correlating that the grasses and trees grow differently
                N1. Correlating living beings as being like grasses and trees
                    and therefore unaware
                N2. Stating that only the Tathāgata understands all beings;
                    he is, therefore, like the great cloud
                N3. Referring to the analogy to correlate that living beings are unaware
            L2. Concluding the explanation
              M1. Concluding that [the teachings] vary yet are the same
              M2. Explaining why the Buddha does not teach immediately
      I2. Concluding praise and explanation
    H2. Verse
      I1. Verse about the teaching of the Dharma
      I2. Verse setting forth the analogy
        J1. Verse about the teaching being the same yet being perceived differently
          K1. Stating further in verse that the rain moistens equally
          K2. Describing further in verse that which produces and that which is produced,
              as well as the different levels of absorption of moisture
        J2. Verse about the teaching being perceived differently yet being the same
      I3. Correlating in verse the analogy with the Dharma
        J1. Correlating in verse how the same teaching is perceived differently
          K1. Correlating in verse that which moistens
          K2. Correlating in verse that which produces and that which is produced
          K3. Further correlating in verse that which moistens and that which is moistened
            L1. Correlating in verse that which moistens
            L2. Correlating in verse that which is moistened
              M1. Correlating in verse beings' joy and spiritual benefit and their
                  serenity in the present life with the rain that moistens all
              M2. Correlating in verse being born in a wholesome place and gradually
                  realizing the Path with growing, blossoming, and bearing fruit
        J2. Correlating in verse how the teaching is perceived differently yet is the same

CHAPTER 6

F4. Conferring predictions
  G1. Conferring predictions on those of average dispositions
    H1. Giving a prediction to Mahākāśyapa
      I1. Prose
        J1. Formative practices
        J2. Realization of Buddhahood
        J3. Names of land and eon
        J4. Life span
        J5. Duration of his Proper Dharma and Semblance Dharma
        J6. Purity of his land
      I2. Verse
        J1. Formative practices and realization of Buddhahood
        J2. Purity of his land
        J3. Life span
        J4. Proper and Semblance Dharma Ages
        J5. Conclusion
    H2. Giving predictions to three other Arhats
      I1. Requesting predictions
        J1. Requesting
        J2. Setting forth a parable
        J3. Correlating the parable with the Dharma
        J4. Concluding the request
      I2. Conferring predictions
        J1. Giving a prediction to Subhūti
          K1. Prose
            L1. Formative practices
            L2. Realization of Buddhahood
            L3. Purity of his eon and land
            L4. Life span
            L5. Proper and Semblance Dharma Ages
          K2. Verse
            L1. Call to be attentive
            L2. Formative practices and realization of Buddhahood
            L3. Purity of his land
            L4. Life span
            L5. Proper and Semblance Ages
        J2. Giving a prediction to Mahākatyāyana
          K1. Prose
            L1. Formative practices
            L2. Realization of Buddhahood
            L3. Purity of his land
            L4. Life span
            L5. Proper and Semblance Dharma Ages
          K2. Verse
            L1. Call to be attentive
            L2. Formative practices
            L3. Realization of Buddhahood
            L4. Land
        J3. Giving a prediction to Mahāmaudgalyāyana
          K1. Prose
            L1. Formative practices
            L2. Realization of Buddhahood
            L3. Eon and land
            L4. Life span
            L5. Proper and Semblance Dharma Ages
          K2. Verse
            L1. Formative practices
            L2. Realization of Buddhahood and the name of his land
            L3. Life span
            L4. Purity of his land
            L5. Proper and Semblance Dharma Ages
  G2. Consenting to speak on the causes and conditions of former lives
      for those of inferior dispositions

CHAPTER 7

E3. The round of teaching by causes and conditions
  F1. Speaking the causes and conditions
    G1. Stating the distant past of [Tathāgata Superior in Knowledge
        Through Great Spiritual Power]
      H1. Prose
        I1. Stating past events
        I2. Analogy of the time that has elapsed [since the Tathāgata's parinirvāṇa]
        I3. Conclusion: Seeing into the past as if it were the present
      H2. Verse
        I1. The events seen
        I2. Analogy for the long time that has elapsed
        I3. Seeing into the past as if it were the present
    G2. Causes and conditions of past lives
      H1. Extensive description
        I1. Affinities from the past
          J1. Distant causes
            K1. The realization of Buddhahood of Buddha Superior in Knowledge
                Through Great Spiritual Power
              L1. The long life span of the Buddha
              L2. The events that occurred prior to his realization of Buddhahood
              L3. Realization of Buddhahood
              L4. Offerings made to him by his retinue after he realized Buddhahood
              L5. Request to turn the Dharma wheel
            K2. Brahmās of the ten directions request the Dharma
              L1. Magnificent brilliance shines through and shakes the earth
              L2. Brahmās come to make their request
                M1. East
                  N1. Startled by auspicious signs
                  N2. Brahmās visit each other and discuss the matter
                  N3. Tracking down the source of the light and seeing the Buddha
                  N4. Making offerings through body, speech, and mind
                  N5. Request to turn the Dharma wheel
                  N6. The Tathāgata assents by remaining silent
                M2. Southeast
                  N1. Startled by auspicious signs
                  N2. Brahmās visit each other and discuss the matter
                  N3. Tracking down the source of the light and seeing the Buddha
                  N4. Making offerings through body, speech, and mind
                  N5. Request to turn the Dharma wheel
                  N6. The Tathāgata assents by remaining silent
                M3. South
                  N1. Startled by auspicious signs
                  N2. Brahmās visit each other and discuss the matter
                  N3. Tracking down the source of the light and seeing the Buddha
                  N4. Making offerings through body, speech, and mind
                  N5. Request to turn the Dharma wheel
                  N6. The Tathāgata assents by remaining silent
                M4. Including the Brahmās from the six directions
                M5. Upper direction
                  N1. Startled by auspicious signs
                  N2. Brahmās visit each other and discuss the matter
                  N3. Tracking down the source of the light and seeing the Buddha
                  N4. Making offerings through body, speech, and mind
                  N5. Request to turn the Dharma wheel
          J2. Near causes
            K1. Turning the Dharma wheel of the half-word teaching
              L1. Receiving the request
              L2. Turning [the Dharma wheel]
                M1. Four noble truths
                M2. Twelve links of dependent arising
              L3. Realizing bodhi upon hearing the Dharma
            K2. Turning the Dharma wheel that abandons the half-word
                teaching to reveal the complete-word teaching
              L1. The princes leave the home life
              L2. They request the Dharma
              L3. The king's followers also leave home
              L4. The Buddha fulfills their request
              L5. In the assembly, some understand and some do not
              L6. The length of time the sūtra is taught
              L7. Entering samādhi after completing the teaching
        I2. The tying of affinities
          J1. Tying affinities by teaching the Dharma
            K1. The tying of affinities in the past
              L1. Continuing the teaching for the benefit of beings
              L2. The Buddha begins praising
                M1. Praising
                M2. Encouragement to draw near and have faith
            K2. Continuing to meet Buddhas in the interim
            K3. The Dharma Flower Sūtra is continuously taught until the present
              L1. Correlation of the past and the present
                M1. Linking the teachers of the past and the present
                M2. Meeting the disciples of the past and the present
                  N1. Significant affinities from the past
                  N2. Explaining that the current Śrāvakas have doubts
                  N3. Correlation of the past and the present
                  N4. Resolving the doubts of future disciples
              L2. The Dharma Flower Sūtra is still taught continuously
                M1. The teaching should be given at an opportune time
                M2. Explaining the intention to teach the Three [Vehicles]
          J2. Parable regarding an affinity already tied
            K1. Setting forth the parable
              L1. Analogy of the guide
              L2. Analogy of the followers
                M1. Analogy of leading the followers
                M2. Analogy of wishing to turn back halfway
                  N1. Retreating from the Great Vehicle
                  N2. Turning toward the Lesser Vehicle
                    O1. Conjuring a city through skillful means
                    O2. Happily approaching and entering [the conjured city]
                M3. Analogy of dissolving the conjured city and
                    leading them to the land of treasures
            K2. Correlating the parable with the Dharma
              L1. Correlating
                M1. Correlating the analogy of the guide
                M2. Correlating the analogy of the followers
              L2. Referring to the parable to correlate [with the Buddha's teaching]
      H2. Verse
        I1. Affinities from the past
          J1. Distant causes
            K1. The realization of Buddhahood of Buddha Superior in Knowledge
                Through Great Spiritual Power
            K2. Brahmās of the ten directions request the Dharma
              L1. Magnificent brilliance shines through and shakes the earth
              L2. Brahmās come to make their request
          J2. Near causes
            K1. Turning the Dharma wheel of the half-word teaching
            K2. Turning the Dharma wheel that abandons the half-word
                teaching to reveal the complete-word teaching
        I2. The tying of affinities
          J1. The teaching of the Dharma
            K1. The tying of affinities in the past
            K2. Continuing to meet Buddhas in the interim
            K3. The Dharma Flower Sūtra is continuously taught until the present
              L1. Correlation of the past and the present
              L2. The Dharma Flower Sūtra is still taught continuously
          J2. Teaching by parable
            K1. Setting forth the parable
              L1. Analogy of the guide
              L2. Analogy of the followers
                M1. The followers want to turn back halfway
                  N1. The multitude retreats from the Great Vehicle
                  N2. The guide coaxes those who turn toward the Lesser Vehicle
                    O1. Conjuring a city through skillful means
                    O2. Happily approaching and entering [the conjured city]
                M2. Dissolving the conjured city and leading
                    the multitude to the land of treasures
            K2. Correlating the parable with the Dharma
              L1. Correlating
                M1. Correlating the guide
                M2. Correlating the followers
              L2. Referring to the parable to correlate [with the Buddha's teaching]

        I2. The tying of affinities
          J1. The teaching of the Dharma
            K1. The tying of affinities in the past
            K2. Continuing to meet Buddhas in the interim
            K3. The Dharma Flower Sūtra is continuously taught until the present
              L1. Correlation of the past and the present
              L2. The Dharma Flower Sūtra is still taught continuously
          J2. Teaching by parable
            K1. Setting forth the parable
              L1. Analogy of the guide
              L2. Analogy of the followers
                M1. The followers want to turn back halfway
                  N1. The multitude retreats from the Great Vehicle
                  N2. The guide coaxes those who turn toward the Lesser Vehicle
                    O1. Conjuring a city through skillful means
                    O2. Happily approaching and entering [the conjured city]
                M2. Dissolving the conjured city and leading
                    the multitude to the land of treasures
            K2. Correlating the parable with the Dharma
              L1. Correlating
                M1. Correlating the guide
                M2. Correlating the followers
              L2. Referring to the parable to correlate [with the Buddha's teaching]

CHAPTER 8

F2. Conferring predictions upon those with inferior roots
  G1. Conferring predictions upon twelve hundred Arhats
    H1. Conferring a prediction upon Pūrṇa
      I1. Describing his silent comprehension
        J1. Describing [Pūrṇa's] joy upon attaining understanding
        J2. Narration of silent thoughts leading to understanding
      I2. The Tathāgata completes his statement and gives predictions
        J1. Prose
          K1. Describing the original and the derivative
            L1. Śākyamuni Buddha's explanation of the past causes
                of [Pūrṇa's] cultivation resulting in the derivative
            L2. Explanation of [Pūrṇa's] practices in past lives
            L3. Explanation of [Pūrṇa's] practices in the presence
                of Buddhas of the three periods of time
          K2. Conferring a prediction [upon Pūrṇa]
            L1. The perfections of cause and result
            L2. The vastness and purity of his land
              M1. The greatness, adornment, and purity of his land
              M2. His land will be completely comprised of beings
                  from the three upper realms
              M3. The perfect blessings and wisdom of humans and gods [in that land]
              M4. The vast number of Bodhisattvas and Śrāvakas there
              M5. Concluding the adornments
            L3. Names of his eon and land
            L4. His life span as a Buddha and the duration of his Dharma
            L5. Offerings to that Buddha's śarīra after his parinirvāṇa
        J2. Verse
          K1. Relating the manifestations of the derivative
            L1. Summarizing the derivative in the case of all Śrāvakas
            L2. Relating the derivative in the case of Pūrṇa
          K2. Conferring a prediction [upon Pūrṇa]
            L1. The perfection of cause and result
            L2. Names of his land and eon
            L3. The vastness and purity of his land
    H2. Conferring predictions upon twelve hundred Arhats
      I1. The request
      I2. Conferring predictions [upon the Arhats]
        J1. Prose
          K1. Predictions for twelve hundred Arhats
          K2. Conferring a prediction upon Ājñātakauṇḍinya
          K3. Conferring predictions upon five hundred Arhats
        J2. Verse
          K1. Predictions for Ājñātakauṇḍinya and the five hundred Arhats
          K2. Conferring predictions upon all the Śrāvakas
  I3. Gaining understanding
    J1. Prose
      K1. Sūtra compiler describes the Arhats' joy
      K2. The Arhats express their understanding
        L1. Teaching the Dharma
        L2. Offering a parable
          M1. Setting forth the parable
            N1. The parable of the drunken person
              O1. The analogy of sewing the pearl [into his clothes]
              O2. The analogy of being drunk and oblivious
              O3. The analogy of setting out on his travels
            N2. The analogy of being awakened by his friend
              O1. Rebuking him
              O2. Showing him the pearl
              O3. Encouraging him to trade the pearl for goods
          M2. Correlating the parable with the Dharma
            N1. Correlating the analogy of being drunk
              O1. Correlating the analogy of sewing the pearl [into his clothes]
              O2. Correlating the analogy of being drunk and oblivious
              O3. Correlating the analogy of setting out on his travels
                  and being content with little
            N2. Correlating the analogy of being awakened by his friend
              O1. Correlating the rebuking
              O2. Correlating the showing of the pearl
              O3. Correlating the encouragement to trade the pearl for goods
    J2. Verse
      K1. Verse about the understanding they gained in their hearts
      K2. Narrating their understanding in verse
        L1. Teaching the Dharma in verse
        L2. Teaching by parable
          M1. Setting forth the parable
            N1. The analogy of being drunk
            N2. The analogy of being awakened by his friend
          M2. Correlating the parable with the Dharma
            N1. Correlating the analogy of being drunk
            N2. Correlating the analogy of being awakened

CHAPTER 9

G2. Conferring predictions upon two thousand Śrāvaka disciples
  H1. Requesting the prediction
    I1. Two people make requests
      J1. The silent request
      J2. The spoken request
        K1. Leading up to the request
        K2. Expressing their wish
    I2. The two thousand make a request
  H2. Conferring the prediction
    I1. Giving predictions to two people
      J1. Giving prediction to Ānanda
        K1. Prose
        K2. Verse
        K3. Those newly resolved have a doubt
        K4. The Tathāgata resolves their doubt
        K5. Ānanda's praise
      J2. Giving prediction to Rāhula
        K1. Prose
        K2. Verse
    I2. Giving predictions to the two thousand disciples
      J1. Prose
      J2. Verse
      J3. Rejoicing upon receiving predictions

CHAPTER 10

C3. Propagation section
  D1. "Dharma Teachers" chapter
    E1. Praising upholders of this Dharma
      F1. Describing the extensive effort and abundant blessings
          of disciples who hold fast to the Path
        G1. Disciples during the Buddha's time
        G2. Disciples after the Buddha's parinirvāṇa
      F2. Describing the extensive effort and abundant blessings
          of the teachers who transmit the teaching
        G1. Prose
          H1. Specific explanation
            I1. The specifics of the present life
              J1. Lower-level Dharma teachers
              J2. Higher-level Dharma teachers
            I2. The specifics of future lives
              J1. Lower-level Dharma teachers
              J2. Higher-level Dharma teachers
          H2. General explanation
        G2. Verse
          H1. Rewarding those who practice and benefit others
          H2. The general and the specific
            I1. Specific explanation
              J1. The specifics of the present life
              J2. The specifics of future lives
            I2. General explanation
          H3. Concluding praise that this sūtra is foremost
    E2. Praising the Dharma upheld and introducing methods
        of propagating this sūtra
      F1. Prose
        G1. Praising the Dharma of this sūtra
          H1. Praising the Dharma
          H2. Praising those who uphold it
          H3. Praising the locations
          H4. Praising the causes
          H5. Praising the effects
            I1. The imminent results
            I2. Setting forth the analogy
            I3. Correlating the analogy with the Dharma
            I4. Naming those who are close [to anuttarā samyaksambodhi]
            I5. Identifying those who are not
        G2. Introducing the methods
          H1. Listing the methods
            I1. Affirming the teaching of this chapter
            I2. The explanation
            I3. Encouragement to cultivate
          H2. Listing the five benefits
      F2. Verse
        G1. Encouragement
        G2. Repeating the prose in verse
          H1. Praising the results
            I1. Setting forth the analogy
            I2. Correlating the analogy with the Dharma
          H2. Introducing the methods
            I1. Listing the methods
            I2. Listing the five benefits
        G3. Concluding the encouragement

CHAPTER 11
  D2. "The Jeweled Stūpa Appears" Chapter
    E1. Prose
      F1. Many Treasures appears
        G1. The appearance of the stūpa
        G2. The gods make offerings
        G3. Buddha Many Treasures praises
        G4. The assembly is astonished and in awe
        G5. Bodhisattva Great Eloquence inquires
        G6. The Tathāgata answers
          H1. Explaining why the stūpa emerged from the earth
          H2. Explaining the causes for the stūpa
          H3. Explaining why the voice came forth [from the stūpa]
      F2. The transformation bodies [of the Buddha] gather from afar
        G1. Bodhisattva Great Eloquence requests
            to meet Buddha Many Treasures
        G2. The Buddha says that his transformation
            bodies will have to gather
        G3. Bodhisattva Great Eloquence invites [the Buddha's]
            transformation bodies to gather together
        G4. The Buddha emits light to summon them from afar
        G5. All the Buddhas come together
        G6. Making the land magnificent and pure
          H1. Transforming this Sahā world
          H2. Transforming two million koṭis of nayutas of lands
          H3. Transforming an additional two million koṭis
              of nayutas of lands in each of the eight directions
        G7. All the Buddhas wish the stūpa to be opened
          H1. All the Buddhas [send their attendants to] inquire after
              [Śākyamuni Buddha's] well-being and to make a request
          H2. Śākyamuni Buddha opens the jeweled stūpa
          H3. The fourfold assembly sees and hears [Buddha Many Treasures]
          H4. The two Buddhas share a seat
          H5. The fourfold assembly requests to join them in space
      F3. Śākyamuni Buddha calls upon the assembly to bequeath [the sūtra]
    E2. Verse
      F1. Verse about Many Treasures
      F2. Verse about [Śākyamuni Buddha's] transformation bodies
      F3. Bequeathing
        G1. Illustrating using Buddhas throughout the three periods
            of time to encourage propagating this sūtra
          H1. Searching for the right people
          H2. Encouraging the upholding of the sūtra through the example
              of Buddhas throughout the three periods of time
          H3. [Śākyamuni Buddha] explains the purpose of the encouragement
        G2. Exemplifying the difficulty in upholding
            the Dharma in order to encourage propagation
          H1. Encouragement
            I1. Sincere encouragement
            I2. Encouraging through the use of examples that
                emphasize the difficulty in upholding the sūtra
            I3. Explaining the difficulty of upholding the sūtra
          H2. Explaining the purpose of the encouragement
            I1. Again calling upon those who can uphold the sūtra
            I2. Those who can uphold that which
                is difficult to uphold delight all Buddhas
            I3. Perfecting one's practices and benefiting others
                will result in the realization of supreme conduct
CHAPTER 12
  D3. "Devadatta" Chapter
    E1. Describing how Devadatta mastered this sūtra in the past
        and aided Śākyamuni Buddha to realize bodhi
      F1. Describing the past, when both teacher
          and disciple upheld this sūtra
        G1. Prose
          H1. The period of time in which the Buddha sought the Dharma
          H2. Seeking the Dharma
            I1. His vow
            I2. His cultivation
              J1. Showing how he practiced giving to perfect dāna pāramitā
              J2. To perfect prajñā, he diligently seeks the wonderful Dharma
          H3. Succeeding in finding a Dharma teacher
          H4. Receiving the Dharma and putting it into practice
        G2. Verse
          H1. Verse about the time when he sought the Dharma
          H2. Verse about succeeding in finding a Dharma teacher
          H3. Verse about receiving the Dharma
              and putting it into practice
          H4. Confirming his attainment and encouraging faith
      F2. Correlation of the past and the present
        G1. Correlation
        G2. Describing how both teacher and disciple have
            perfected their merit and results
          H1. Both teacher and disciple's causes are complete
              and their results are realized
          H2. The wonderful attainment of the Dharma teacher is assured
            I1. The realization of the attainment
            I2. Those who are to be taught
            I3. The benefits following after his parinirvāṇa
      F3. Encouraging faith
    E2. Describing Mañjuśrī's affirmation of this sūtra, resulting
        in the dragon girl's realization of Buddhahood
      F1. Affirmation of this sūtra
        G1. Wisdom Accumulation Bodhisattva requests to leave the assembly
        G2. Śākyamuni Buddha asks him to stay a while
        G3. Mañjuśrī immediately arrives
        G4. Wisdom Accumulation Bodhisattva inquires
        G5. Mañjuśrī Bodhisattva replies
          H1. Responding that the number of those
              who received benefit was great
          H2. Those who received benefit gather together to bear witness
          H3. Mañjuśrī's conclusion
          H4. Wisdom Accumulation praises in verse
      F2. Listing nine benefits
        G1. Mañjuśrī narrates
        G2. Wisdom Accumulation inquires
        G3. Mañjuśrī Bodhisattva replies
        G4. Wisdom Accumulation's attachments and doubts
        G5. The dragon girl clears up his doubts
        G6. Śāriputra cites scripture to challenge her
        G7. The dragon girl dispels his doubts by means of ultimate reality
CHAPTER 13
  D4. "Encouragement to Uphold" Chapter
    E1. Receiving and upholding
      F1. Twenty thousand Bodhisattvas accord with the
          command to uphold the sūtra in this land
      F2. The Śrāvakas vow to propagate the sūtra in other lands
      F3. The bhikṣuṇīs request predictions
        G1. Giving predictions to Mahāprajāpatī
            and the six thousand bhikṣuṇīs
        G2. Giving a prediction to Yaśodharā
        G3. The bhikṣuṇīs gain understanding
        G4. The bhikṣuṇīs vow [to uphold the sūtra]
    E2. Encouragement to uphold
      F1. Prose
        G1. The Buddha observes with his Buddha eye
        G2. The Bodhisattvas request the teaching
        G3. Reflecting on the meaning of the Buddha's silence
        G4. Complying with the Buddha's will and making vows
      F2. Verse
        G1. Propagating the sūtra by putting on the Tathāgata's robe
          H1. Discussion of the troubled age
          H2. The situation to be endured
            I1. Unwholesome people
            I2. Monastics of overbearing pride
            I3. The arrogant ones who pretend to be sages
          H3. The purpose of putting on the Tathāgata's robe
        G2. Propagating the sūtra by entering the Tathāgata's room
        G3. Propagating the sūtra by sitting on the Tathāgata's throne
        G4. Conclusion
CHAPTER 14
  D5. "Practices of Peace and Joy" Chapter
    E1. Question
      F1. Praising the Bodhisattvas of profound practice,
          discussed in the previous chapter, who are able
          to propagate the sūtra in accord with the Dharma
      F2. Asking how Bodhisattvas who are starting to
          practice can propagate the sūtra in the troubled age
    E2. Answer
      F1. Affirming the teaching of this chapter
      F2. Explanation of methods of cultivation
        G1. The practice of peace and joy concerning the body
          H1. Prose
            I1. Statement
            I2. Explanation
              J1. Explanation of the field of practice
              J2. Explanation of the field of association
                K1. Listing those to avoid
                  L1. Avoid the mighty and powerful
                  L2. Avoid non-Buddhists and their practices
                  L3. Avoid violent combat and performances
                  L4. Avoid caṇḍālas
                  L5. Avoid those of the Two Vehicles
                  L6. Avoid thoughts of desire
                  L7. Avoid unmanly men
                  L8. Avoid being endangered
                  L9. Avoid potential slander
                  L10. Avoid raising young disciples
                K2. Listing those to draw near to
                K3. The field of association that one neither
                    avoids nor draws near to
                  L1. General statement about states of wisdom
                  L2. Specific explanation
                  L3. Conclusion
          H2. Verse
            I1. Statement in verse
            I2. Explanation in verse
              J1. Listing in verse those to avoid
              J2. Verse about neither avoiding nor drawing near to
            I3. Explaining how the practice is accomplished
              J1. Indicating how the practice should be accomplished
              J2. Statement of how the practice is
                  accomplished to attain peace and happiness
              J3. Conclusion in verse
        G2. The practice of peace and joy concerning speech
          H1. Prose
            I1. Affirming the teaching of this chapter
            I2. Explanation
              J1. Behaviors to avoid
                K1. Not speaking of the faults of others
                K2. Not despising others
                K3. Not praising and not disparaging
                K4. Not harboring resentment or loathing
              J2. Practice of contemplation
          H2. Verse
            I1. Verse about the practices
            I2. Explaining in verse
              J1. Verse about behaviors to avoid
              J2. Verse about the practice of contemplation
            I3. Explaining the accomplishment of the practices
        G3. The practice of peace and joy concerning the mind
          H1. Prose
            I1. Behaviors to avoid
            I2. The practice of contemplation
            I3. Concluding with the accomplishment of the practices
          H2. Verse
            I1. The explanation in verse
              J1. Verse about behaviors to avoid
              J2. Verse about the practice of contemplation
            I2. Verse about the accomplishment of the practice
        G4. The practice of peace and joy concerning making vows
          H1. Prose
            I1. Method of practice
            I2. Conclusion about the accomplishment of the practice
            I3. Praise of this sūtra
              J1. Brief praise of the Dharma
              J2. Extensively praising with a parable
                K1. The analogy of not giving away the pearl
                  L1. Setting forth the parable
                    M1. Subduing other countries by force
                    M2. The minor kings' lack of compliance
                    M3. Mobilizing troops to quell them
                    M4. Happily rewarding the successful
                    M5. Not giving away the pearl
                  L2. Correlating the parable with the Dharma
                    M1. Correlating the subduing of other countries by force
                    M2. Correlating the minor kings' lack of compliance
                    M3. Correlating the mobilizing of troops to quell them
                    M4. Correlating happily rewarding the successful
                    M5. Correlating not giving away the pearl
                K2. The analogy of giving away the pearl
                  L1. Setting forth the analogy
                  L2. Correlating the analogy with the Dharma
          H2. Verse
            I1. Verse about the method of practice
              J1. Opening verse about how to accomplish the practice
              J2. Subsequent verse about the method of practice
            I2. Verse praising this sūtra
              J1. General verse about the two analogies
              J2. Verse correlating both analogies with the Dharma
      F3. General explanation of the accomplishment of the practices
        G1. Concluding by encouraging the four practices
        G2. Listing three kinds of rewards as encouragement
        G3. Conclusion
          H1. Karmic retributions transform into present life's reward
          H2. Negative karma transforms into next life's reward
          H3. Obstacles of affliction transform into
              rewards in subsequent lives
            I1. Specific explanation of the transformation of the
                three kinds of obstacles of affliction
              J1. Transforming the obstacle of greed
              J2. Transforming the obstacle of hatred
              J3. Transforming the obstacle of delusion
            I2. General explanation of the transformation
                of the hindrance of afflictions
              J1. Encountering in dreams states similar to the ten faiths
              J2. Encountering in dreams the state of the first abode:
                  the position of the path of insight
              J3. Encountering in dreams the states of advancing from the
                  ten abodes, through the ten practices, to the ten grounds:
                  the position of the path of cultivation
              J4. Encountering in dreams the ultimate state of wondrous awakening
        G3. Conclusion
CHAPTER 15
  B2. The original aspect: introducing the near
      to reveal the distant
    C1. Introductory section
      D1. Emerging
        E1. Bodhisattvas from other lands ask to propagate the sūtra
        E2. The Tathāgata refuses to grant permission
        E3. Emerging from below
          F1. Narrative added by sūtra compiler
            G1. Emerging
            G2. Their physical appearance
            G3. Where they lived
            G4. Hearing the Buddha's voice
            G5. Their followers
          F2. Inquiring after the Buddha's welfare
            G1. Making offerings through body, mouth, and mind
              H1. Making offerings
              H2. The amount of time elapsed
              H3. The aid of the Buddha's spiritual power
            G2. Inquiring after the Buddha's welfare
            G3. The Buddha replies that he is happy and at peace
            G4. Verse about the assembly responding with joy
            G5. The Tathāgata's praise
      D2. Raising questions and doubts
        E1. The Bodhisattvas of this land raise their doubts
          F1. Raising doubts in prose
          F2. Questioning in verse
            G1. Asking where the Bodhisattvas came from and why they have come
            G2. Describing their various numbers of followers
            G3. Asking who their teacher is
            G4. Concluding the request to resolve their doubts
              H1. Concluding praise
              H2. Requesting to know where they came from
              H3. Requesting to know why they came
              H4. The entire assembly wishes to know
        E2. The Bodhisattvas of other lands raise their doubts
    C2. Main content section
      D1. Assenting with a warning
        E1. Prose
          F1. Praise
          F2. Encouragement
          F3. Assent
        E2. Verse
          F1. Encouragement
          F2. Assent
      D2. Main content
        E1. Introducing the near to reveal the distant
            (from this point to the end of chap. 16)
          F1. Concise explanation describing attachments wavering and
              doubts arising (from the beginning to the end of this chapter)
            G1. Concise explanation
              H1. Prose
                I1. Answering who their teacher is
                I2. Answering where they came from
                  J1. Answer
                  J2. Explanation
                    K1. Explaining their abodes
                    K2. Praising their upholding of practice
              H2. Verse
                I1. Repeating the prose in verse
                  J1. Answering in verse who their teacher is
                  J2. Answering in verse where they came from
                I2. Concise explanation in verse
            G2. Raising doubts
              H1. Prose
                I1. Sūtra compiler describes the Bodhisattvas' doubts
                I2. Requesting a reply prompted by their swirling doubts
                  J1. Swirling doubts
                    K1. Teaching the Dharma
                      L1. Given the near, one doubts the distant
                      L2. Given the distant, one doubts the near
                      L3. Concluding that it is difficult to believe
                    K2. Setting forth the analogy
                    K3. Correlating the analogy with the Dharma
                  J2. Requesting a reply
                    K1. Clarifying the intention of the request
                      L1. For the sake of those of the present
                      L2. For the sake of those of the future
                    K2. Requesting a reply
              H2. Verse
                I1. Describing their swirling doubts in verse
                  J1. Verse about the teaching of the Dharma
                    K1. Verse about the near
                    K2. Verse about the distant
                    K3. Concluding in verse that it is difficult to believe
                  J2. Setting forth the analogy in verse
                  J3. Correlating the analogy with the Dharma
                I2. Requesting a reply in verse
CHAPTER 16
          F2. Extensively expounding to sever doubts and awaken faith
            G1. Urging the assembly to have faith
              H1. Urging them three times
              H2. Requesting the explanation three times
              H3. Requesting again
              H4. Urging again
            G2. Replying
              H1. Prose
                I1. Introducing the near to reveal the distant
                  J1. Breaking the attachment to the proximate
                  J2. Breaking the attachment to the proximate to reveal the past
                    K1. Revealing the distant past
                    K2. Analogy showing the length of [the Buddha's] life span
                      L1. Using the analogy as a rhetorical question
                      L2. Replying
                      L3. Correlating the analogy with the length
                          of [the Buddha's] life span
                I2. Stating that [the Buddha] benefits beings throughout
                    the three periods of time
                  J1. Teaching the Dharma
                    K1. Benefiting beings throughout the three periods of time
                      L1. Benefiting beings in the past
                        M1. The places where beings of the past were benefited
                        M2. Dispelling all traces of doubts in the past
                        M3. The appropriate manner of benefiting beings in the past
                          N1. Understanding beings' potentials
                          N2. Bestowing the teaching
                            O1. Benefiting by both physical form and sound
                            O2. Showing how beings rejoice at the benefit
                      L2. Benefiting living beings in the present
                        M1. Understanding beings' potentials
                        M2. Bestowing the teaching
                          N1. Describing the manifestation
                          N2. Describing the teaching of the Dharma
                            O1. Stating the teaching of the epoch
                            O2. Explaining the reason for teaching
                                through skillful means
                              P1. Showing that elucidating the principle
                                  of the provisional and the ultimate is the
                                  rationale for the teaching
                              P2. Showing that accommodating the
                                  propensities for sudden and gradual
                                  is the condition for the teaching
                      L3. Benefiting living beings in the future
                        M1. Claiming to enter nirvāṇa without actually doing
                            so in order to benefit those of the future
                          N1. Stating that in reality the Buddha does not enter nirvāṇa
                          N2. Claiming to enter nirvāṇa as an expedient
                        M2. Explaining the reason for claiming to enter nirvāṇa
                          N1. Not entering nirvāṇa will result in disadvantage
                          N2. Proclaiming entry into parinirvāṇa will bring about benefit
                    K2. Concluding that the Buddha's Dharma is true, never false
                  J2. Teaching by parable
                    K1. Setting forth the parable
                      L1. The good physician cures his children—an analogy
                          for benefiting beings in the three periods of time
                        M1. He travels afar—an analogy for benefiting beings in the past
                        M2. He returns—an analogy for benefiting present beings
                          N1. The analogy of foreboding coming true
                          N2. The analogy of bestowing the teaching
                            O1. The analogy of manifestation
                            O2. Teaching the Dharma by analogy
                              P1. The analogy drawn to the Buddha's
                                  accepting the request to turn the wheel
                                  of sudden and gradual Dharma
                              P2. The analogy drawn to the encouragement
                              P3. The analogy drawn to gaining benefit
                        M3. He leaves again—an analogy for benefiting beings in the future
                          N1. Stating further in analogy the
                              disadvantage of not entering nirvāṇa
                          N2. The analogy drawn to the expedient
                              of claiming to enter nirvāṇa
                          N3. The analogy drawn to the proclamation that
                              entering parinirvāṇa will bring about benefit
                          N4. Describing further in analogy the reality
                              that the Buddha does not enter nirvāṇa
                      L2. The cured sons obtain real benefit—an analogy for concluding
                          that the Buddha's Dharma is true, never false
                    K2. Correlating the parable with the Dharma
              H2. Verse
                I1. Verse revealing the distant past
                I2. Verses about benefiting beings in the three periods of time
                  J1. Verse about the teaching of the Dharma
                    K1. Verse about benefiting beings in the three periods of time
                      L1. Verse about benefiting past beings
                        M1. Stating further in verse the appropriate
                            manner of benefiting beings in the past
                        M2. Describing further in verse the places
                            where beings of the past were benefited
                        M3. Verse about dispelling all traces of doubt in the past
                      L2. Verse about benefiting present beings
                        M1. Response
                        M2. Bestowing the teaching
                      L3. Verse about benefiting future beings
                        M1. Verse about the expedient proclamation of entering
                            nirvāṇa and the reason for the proclamation
                        M2. Verse about not actually entering nirvāṇa, and extensive
                            explanation of the reason that living beings' not seeing
                            the Buddha is actually seeing the Buddha
                    K2. Concluding that the Buddha's Dharma is true, never false
                  J2. Teaching by parable
                    K1. Setting forth the parable
                    K2. Correlating the parable with the Dharma
CHAPTER 17
        E2. General conferring of predictions for Bodhisattvas
            who have realized the Dharma body
          F1. Narrative added by sūtra compiler
          F2. The Tathāgata describes the various merits and virtues gained
          F3. Auspicious signs confirm the spiritual attainments
        E3. Maitreya is led to understanding
          F1. Verse on the assembly gaining understanding
          F2. Verse on the Tathāgata describing
              the various merits and virtues gained
          F3. Verse on the auspicious signs
              confirming the spiritual attainments
      C3. Propagation section (chap. 17 through halfway of chap. 28)
        D1. Encouragement to propagate the sūtra
            for the sake of merit and virtue
          E1. Stating the four faiths of the present
            F1. Bringing forth a single thought of faith and understanding
              G1. Prose
                H1. Describing the various merits and virtues
                H2. Stating the merit and virtue
                  I1. Concluding the limitless merit and virtue
                  I2. Quantification that shows plenitude
                    J1. Illustrating with the five pāramitās as basis of quantification
                    J2. Quantifying the merit and virtue concerning
                        faith and understanding as abundant
                H3. Stating the irreversibility in practice and position
              G2. Verse
                H1. Stating further in verse the merit and virtue
                  I1. Stating further in verse the
                      quantification that shows plenitude
                    J1. Illustrating in verse the five pāramitās
                        as the basis of quantification
                    J2. Describing in verse the quantification of abundant merit
                        and virtue arising from faith and understanding
                  I2. Describing further in verse the limitless merit
                H2. Describing in verse the irreversibility in practice and position
                  I1. Stating the difficulty in having faith and understanding
                  I2. Stating the requisite of making vows
                      in order to attain irreversibility
                H3. Describing further in verse the various merits and virtues
            F2. Understanding the meaning of the words
            F3. Hearing, upholding, and making offerings
            F4. Beholding indicates deep faith
          E2. Describing the five ways [of upholding this sūtra]
              after the Buddha's parinirvāṇa
            F1. Listing the five ways [of upholding this sūtra], followed
                by roughly quantifying the merit of the last four ways
              G1. Prose
                H1. Rejoicing in upholding this sūtra
                H2. Encouraging others to uphold, read, and recite this sūtra
                  I1. Describing those who read, recite, and uphold this sūtra
                  I2. Quantifying their merit and virtue
                H3. Encouraging others to uphold
                  I1. Describing those who read, recite, and uphold this sūtra
                  I2. Quantifying their merit and virtue
                H4. Additionally practicing the six pāramitās
                  I1. Describing those who read, recite, and uphold this sūtra
                  I2. Quantifying their merit and virtue
                H5. Perfecting the practice of the six pāramitās
                  I1. Describing those who read, recite, and uphold this sūtra
                  I2. Quantifying their merit and virtue
              G2. Verse
                H1. Verse on the second way
                H2. Verse on the third way
                H3. Verse on the fourth way
                H4. Verse on the fifth way
CHAPTER 18
          F2. Detailed quantification of the merit of the first
              way [of upholding this sūtra]
            G1. Question
            G2. Answer
              H1. Prose
                I1. Describing the merit of rejoicing
                    in others' teaching of this sūtra
                  J1. Continuously imparting the teaching
                  J2. Enumerating various quantifications
                  J3. Question
                  J4. Answer
                  J5. Quantifying
                I2. Describing the merit from listening to the Dharma
                  J1. Listening to the sūtra in person
                  J2. Sharing seats with others
                  J3. Encouraging others
                  J4. Listening and putting into practice
              H2. Verse
                I1. Verse on the merit of rejoicing in the
                    teaching being imparted
                I2. Verse on the merit from listening to the Dharma
                  J1. Verse about encouraging others
                  J2. Verse about listening to the sūtra in person
                  J3. Verse about sharing seats with others
                  J4. Verse about listening and putting into practice
CHAPTER 19
        D2. Explaining the meritorious qualities
            as an encouragement to propagation
          E1. General list of meritorious qualities
          E2. Specific explanations of the meritorious qualities
            F1. The eyes
            F2. The ears
            F3. The nose
            F4. The tongue
            F5. The body
            F6. The mind
CHAPTER 20
        D3. Describing the blessings and offenses incurred through
            faith and slander as an encouragement to propagation
          E1. Prose
            F1. Recapitulating offenses and blessings
                described in previous chapters
            F2. Illustrating the consequences of past
                occurrences of faith and slander
              G1. Describing the origin of the occurrences
                H1. Describing the first Buddha
                  I1. Time
                  I2. The Buddha's name
                  I3. His eon and land
                  I4. The teaching of the Dharma
                  I5. The Buddha's life span
                  I6. His Proper and Semblance Dharma Ages
                H2. The twenty thousand koṭis of Buddhas that
                    appeared in succession
              G2. Narrating their past lives
                H1. Indicating the two names
                H2. Stating the consequences resulting from faith and slander
                  I1. Stating the consequences resulting from faith
                  I2. Stating the loss resulting from slander
                H3. The results of faith and slander
                  I1. The rewards for the faithful
                    J1. The reward
                    J2. Correlation of the past and the present
                  I2. The retribution for slanderers
                    J1. The retribution
                    J2. Correlation of the past and the present
            F3. Encouragement to uphold
          E2. Verse
            F1. Consequences of faith and slander
              G1. The origin of the occurrences
              G2. Past events
                H1. The two names
                H2. Faith and slander
                H3. Rewards and retributions
                  I1. Rewards for the faithful
                  I2. Retribution for slanderers
            F2. Encouragement to uphold
CHAPTER 21
  A3. Propagation by the two gates
      of the original and the derivative
    B1. Entrusting [the Bodhisattvas] to propagate (chaps. 21 and 22)
      C1. "The Spiritual Powers of a Tathāgata" chapter states that the
          Bodhisattvas accept the entrustment to propagate the sūtra
        D1. Prose
          E1. The Bodhisattvas accept the Tathāgata's entrustment
          E2. The Buddhas manifest spiritual powers
            F1. The audience
            F2. Manifestation of spiritual powers
              G1. Extending their vast and long tongues
              G2. Emitting rays of light from their pores
              G3. Clearing their throats
              G4. Snapping their fingers
              G5. Earthquakes
              G6. All is seen in the great assembly
              G7. Calling out in space
              G8. Taking refuge from afar
              G9. Making offerings from afar
              G10. The ten directions come together seamlessly
                   as if they were one Buddhaland
          E3. Conclusion and encouragement to uphold
            F1. Praising the entrustment
            F2. Concluding the entrustment
            F3. Encouragement to uphold the entrustment
            F4. Explaining the entrustment
        D2. Verse
          E1. Spiritual powers
          E2. Conclusion and encouragement to uphold
            F1. Praise
            F2. Conclusion and explaining the entrustment
              G1. The teaching of all Buddhas is the same
              G2. The spiritual powers of self-mastery
              G3. The treasury of esoteric, essential Dharma
              G4. The extremely profound matter
            F3. Encouragement
CHAPTER 22
      C2. "Entrustment" chapter states that the Tathāgata
          rubs beings' crowns as he confers entrustment
        D1. Entrustment
          E1. The Tathāgata's entrustment
            F1. The conferment of entrustment
            F2. Explaining the reason for entrustment
            F3. Encouragement and entrustment
          E2. The Bodhisattvas accept the entrustment
          E3. The entrustment complete, the call to disband the assembly
        D2. The assembly rejoices

CHAPTER 23
    B2. Five chapters beginning with "The Account of Bodhisattva
        Medicine King's Past Lives" describe teaching others
        and encouraging propagation
      C1. Encouraging the Dharma teachers to propagate the Dharma
        D1. Question
        D2. Answer
          E1. Answering by describing his ascetic practices
            F1. Describing the origin of the occurrences
            F2. Narrating his past lives
              G1. The Buddha teaches the Dharma
              G2. Cultivating making offerings
                H1. Describing offerings made during that lifetime
                  I1. Realizing the Dharma through cultivation
                  I2. Aspiring to repay kindness
                    J1. Using the powers of samādhi as an offering
                    J2. Burning his body as an offering
                      K1. Burning his body
                      K2. The Buddhas' praise
                      K3. The duration of the burning of his body
                H2. Offerings made in the next life
                  I1. Being born in a royal family
                  I2. Narrating his past lives
                  I3. Traveling to where the Buddha is
                  I4. The Tathāgata confers entrustment
                  I5. Accepting and upholding the entrustment
                    J1. Building stūpas
                    J2. Burning his arms
                    J3. Gaining benefits
                    J4. The manifestation of the reward
              G3. Correlation of the past and the present
                H1. Conclusion
                H2. Encouragement to cultivate
          E2. Praising the sūtra
            F1. Praising one who upholds the sūtra
            F2. Praising the teachings of the sūtra
              G1. Praising the substance of the Dharma
              G2. Praising the function of the Dharma
            F3. Describing the depth of blessings of one who upholds the sūtra
              G1. Describing the blessings of upholding the entire sūtra
              G2. Describing the blessings of upholding this chapter
                H1. Ascertaining quantification
                H2. Entrustment
        D3. The benefits
        D4. Praise from Tathāgata Many Treasures
CHAPTER 24
      C2. Encouraging the disciples who receive
          the Dharma (chaps. 24 and 25)
        D1. The "Wondrous Voice" chapter
          E1. Emitting light to summon Wondrous Voice from the east
          E2. Wondrous Voice travels west on command
            F1. The reason for coming
              G1. Sūtra compiler describes the virtue
                  [of Bodhisattva Wondrous Voice]
              G2. Having been illumined, he takes leave of his Buddha
              G3. His Buddha's compassionate advice
              G4. Bodhisattva Wondrous Voice takes his Buddha's advice
              G5. Manifesting signs in advance of his arrival
                H1. Sending the lotuses ahead
                H2. Mañjuśrī inquires
                H3. Śākyamuni Buddha's answer
                H4. Mañjuśrī asks to see Bodhisattva Wondrous Voice
                H5. Śākyamuni Buddha gives the honor to Buddha Many Treasures
                H6. Many Treasures summons him to the assembly
            F2. Arriving
              G1. Bodhisattva Wondrous Voice passes
                  through [many lands] with his retinue
              G2. Description of his physical features
                  and his boarding the platform
              G3. Inquiring after Śākyamuni Buddha's well-being
              G4. Requesting to meet Buddha Many Treasures
              G5. Śākyamuni introduces them
              G6. Praise from within the stūpa
              G7. Question and answer about past causes
                H1. Question
                H2. Answer
          E3. Propagating the sūtra in the ten directions
            F1. Appearing in different forms to teach the Dharma
            F2. Question and answer about the samādhi he abides in
              G1. Question
              G2. Answer
          E4. The benefits gained in two lands
          E5. Returning to his own land
          E6. Advancing on the Path after hearing this chapter
CHAPTER 25
        D2. The "Universal Door" chapter
          E1. Questions and answers
            F1. Prose
              G1. The first round of question and answer
                H1. Question
                H2. Answer
                  I1. General answer
                  I2. Specific answer
                    J1. Efficacious responses through speech
                      K1. The seven difficulties
                        L1. The difficulty of fire
                        L2. The difficulty of water
                        L3. The difficulty of rākṣasas
                        L4. The difficulty of knives and clubs
                        L5. The difficulty of ghosts
                        L6. The difficulty of stocks and chains
                        L7. The difficulty of vicious bandits
                      K2. Concluding praise
                    J2. Efficacious responses through the mind
                      K1. The three poisons
                      K2. Concluding praise
                    J3. Efficacious responses through physical actions
                      K1. The two wishes
                      K2. Concluding praise
                  I3. Encouragement to uphold the name
                    J1. Encouragement to uphold
                    J2. Quantification [of merit]
                    J3. Concluding praise
              G2. The second round of question and answer
                H1. Questions
                H2. Answer
                  I1. Specific answer
                  I2. General answer
                  I3. Encouragement to make offerings
                    J1. Encouragement
                    J2. Receiving instructions
                      K1. Heeding the Buddha's instructions [to make offerings]
                      K2. Guan Yin Bodhisattva declines
                      K3. Infinite Resolve pleads again
                      K4. The Buddha's encouragement
                      K5. Accepting the gift and offering it to the Buddhas
                      K6. Concluding praise
            F2. Verse
              G1. Paired verses about the two rounds of questions
              G2. Paired verses about the two rounds of answers
                H1. Praising her practices and vows
                H2. Specific verses about the two rounds of answers
                  I1. Answers to the previous question
                    J1. General answer
                    J2. Specific answers
                      K1. The seven difficulties
                        L1. The difficulty of fire
                        L2. The difficulty of water
                        L3. The difficulty of falling off Mount Sumeru
                        L4. The difficulty of falling off the Vajra Mountains
                        L5. The difficulty of vicious enemies
                        L6. The difficulty of knives and staves
                        L7. The difficulty of stocks and chains
                        L8. The difficulty of hexes, curses, and poisons
                        L9. The difficulty of ghosts
                        L10. The difficulty of vicious beasts
                        L11. The difficulty of venomous snakes and scorpions
                        L12. The difficulty of thunderstorms
                      K2. The three poisons and the two wishes
                  I2. Answers to the subsequent question
                    J1. Universal responses to all requests
                      K1. Universal responses through physical actions
                      K2. Universal contemplations through the mind
                      K3. Universal teaching through speech
                    J2. Verse about responding to all beings' requests
              G3. Two encouragements
                H1. Encouragement to uphold [Guan Yin's] name
                  I1. Her wisdom is so profound and wondrous that
                      one is encouraged to constantly uphold her name
                  I2. The response is so difficult to fathom that
                      one is encouraged to relinquish doubts
                H2. Encouragement to make offerings [to Guan Yin]
          E2. The merit attained through hearing this chapter
            F1. Guardian of the Earth gives praise and attestation
            F2. Sūtra compiler describes the benefits
CHAPTER 26
      C3. Describing the use of dhāraṇīs as protection
        D1. Asking about the merit of upholding this sūtra
        D2. Answering in terms of the great benefits
        D3. Offering protection with dhāraṇīs
          E1. Medicine King
            F1. Offering protection
            F2. Proclaiming the mantra
            F3. Praise
            F4. Certification
          E2. Bodhisattva Courageous Giving
            F1. Offering protection
            F2. Proclaiming the mantra
            F3. Praise
          E3. Vaiśravaṇa
            F1. Offering protection
            F2. Proclaiming the mantra
            F3. Praise
          E4. Heavenly King Guardian of the State
            F1. Offering protection
            F2. Proclaiming the mantra
            F3. Praise
          E5. Rākṣasīs
            F1. Naming those who offer protection in unison
            F2. Proclaiming the mantra
            F3. Praise
            F4. Making a vow
            F5. Certification
        D4. The benefit the assembly gained after
            hearing this chapter
CHAPTER 27
      C4. Describing those who lend protection
        D1. Describing past lives
        D2. Identifying those who teach and the one that is taught
        D3. Describing the skillful means used by those who teach
          E1. The time arrives
          E2. Discussion
          E3. Displaying manifestations
        D4. Describing how those who are taught gain benefit
          E1. The king believes in his sons and submits to their teacher
          E2. The sons request permission from their mother to leave home
          E3. Urging them once again to meet the Buddha
          E4. Describing and praising the merit
          E5. All go before the Buddha, listen to the Dharma, make
              offerings, see auspicious signs, and become joyful
          E6. The Buddha bestows a prediction upon the king
          E7. Leaving home to cultivate
          E8. Praising his two sons
          E9. The Buddha tells of their lofty conduct
          E10. Praising the Buddha and making vows
        D5. Correlation of the past and the present
        D6. Awakening to the Path after hearing this chapter
CHAPTER 28
    B3. Propagating and encouraging others to propagate
      C1. Arrival
        D1. Offerings
        D2. Teachings
        D3. Paying their respects
      C2. Encouragement
        D1. Question about encouragement
          E1. Question
          E2. Answer
        D2. Vows to encourage propagation
          E1. Vow to protect upholders of this sūtra
            F1. Warding away difficulties externally
            F2. Teaching the practice of Dharma internally
              G1. Reading and reciting whether walking or standing
              G2. Sitting and pondering over this sūtra
              G3. Being vigorous for twenty-one days
            F3. Aided by spiritual power
            F4. Showing the supreme cause
            F5. Showing the proximate results
            F6. Concluding encouragement
          E2. Vow to protect the Dharma
      C3. Description of vows
        D1. The protection of the Dharma
        D2. Describing the protection of upholders of this sūtra
          E1. Describing teaching the practice of Dharma internally
          E2. Describing showing the supreme cause
          E3. Describing showing the proximate results
          E4. Describing warding away difficulties externally
          E5. General conclusion of encouragement
      C4. Benefits
        D1. Benefits of hearing this chapter
        D2. Benefits of hearing this sūtra